# PortfolioProjects
Hi, this repository contains the personal projects that I have worked on when I taught myself the basics of data analytics. The covid studies project dataset that I used can be found in Google Drive through the link below. I can't include them in Github because they exceed the file size limit.<br />
Covid Dataset: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1FRMQBdCfD0Ru4qudRQQVOLxZUbmHqGTE?usp=drive_link
<br />The covid dataset in the Google Drive link is actually the simplified version of covid data retrieved from https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus for easier processing in SQL Server.<br /><br />
## ProjectLists
* Covid Case Studies: Utilize SQL to analyze over 350000 data on Covid19 deaths & vaccinations all over the world to gain different kinds of  insights such as the country with highest rate of infections, percentage of total cases over country population, percentage of total cases over total deaths & percentage of  vaccination within a country population. CTE & Partition By functions are used to view the number of vaccinations over period of time in different countries.
* Nashville Housing Data: Utilize SQL to clean over 56000 housing data in Nashville, Tennessee, USA that includes date formatting & column value standardization as well as removal of duplicates & unused columns. Substring & parsename functions are used to break down addresses into address, city & states for easier processing of data in the later stage.
* Bike Purchase In Europe Analysis: Perform data cleaning in Excel of over 1000 bike purchase data in Europe that includes column value standardization. Pivot tables are built to better understand who makes up the largest part of bike buyers based on the customers’ genders, income, commute distance & age brackets. A dashboard is also created to visualize the bike sales data based on customer gender, income, age brackets & commute distance with filters on customer marital status, regions & educations to further break down the data based on the filter criteria.
* Airbnb Listing Data Visualization: Create a dashboard using Tableau to visualize Airbnb listing data in USA that can help property owners to decide on which area & when is the time to rent that they can generate the most revenue. The dashboard also visualizes the relationship between the number of bedrooms with the amount of money they can generate as well as the available competitors. Link to Tableau Viz: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/intan.nora.syahira.nazri/viz/5-TableuFullProject/Dashboard1
* Data Professional Survey Dashboard: Create a dashboard using Microsoft Power BI to visualize some findings from Data Professional Survey dataset that breaks down the survey participants by their residing countries, average salary based on job titles, favourite programming languages of participants, difficulty scale of getting into data career as well as rating of participants happiness on their work/life balance and salaries.
